chore: adds an ADR for bundle OCI media types (#750)
defenseunicorns/uds-cli: adr/0009-bundle-media-types.md

# 9. Bundle OCI Media Types

Date: 1 July 2024 [[1]](#footnotes)

## Status

Accepted

## Context

The structure of a bundle OCI artifact is as follows:

![Bundle OCI Artifact Structure](../docs/.images/uds-bundle.png)

Note that both the bundle root manifest and the Zarf package root manifest are both OCI image manifests. The Zarf image manifest is taken directly from Zarf OCI packages, and the bundle root manifest is a new OCI image manifest that contains the Zarf image manifests as layers. This structure effectively creates a "double pointer" from the `index.json` to the layers in the bundle image manifest, and then to the Zarf image manifest.

> This "double pointer" is problematic because, while the [OCI spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/manifest.md) for image manifests doesn't necessary prohibit image manifests from pointing to image manifests, this leads to undesirable behavior in our [oras-go](https://github.com/oras-project/oras-go) client which breaks compatability across Docker's registry/v2 and GHCR OCI registries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This "double pointer" is problematic because, while the [OCI spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/main/manifest.md) for image manifests doesn't necessarily prohibit image manifests from pointing to image manifests, this leads to undesirable behavior in our [oras-go](https://github.com/oras-project/oras-go) client which breaks compatibility across Docker's registry/v2 and GHCR OCI registries.
```

    - **pros**: sharing more code across products, potentially easier to maintain and grok
    - **cons**: shared code means products are more tightly coupled and more susceptible to breaking changes, unproven solution (not sure if these even works) and would require significant refactoring of existing code

## Decision

Option 1, keep the historical media types. This decision is based on the following considerations:
- We'd like to keep the bundle's OCI format stable and not introduce breaking changes unless there is a benefit to end users.
- This is a proven solution that works with existing UDS CLI code.
- While Option 2 could be valuable, there isn't much benefit to existing users and the code improvement may only be marginal.

## Consequences

All UDS CLI contributors need to become intimately familiar with the OCI spec and the `oras-go` client to understand the nuances of the bundle OCI artifact. This is a complex area of the codebase that will require careful maintenance and documentation to ensure that future contributors can understand the code and make changes without breaking existing functionality.

## Footnotes

> 1. This ADR is largely historical and serves as developer documentation for why bundle OCI artifacts are stuctured the way they are. This has been the case since UDS CLI's inception in August 2023.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. This ADR is largely historical and serves as developer documentation for why bundle OCI artifacts are structured the way they are. This has been the case since UDS CLI's inception in August 2023.
```
